Speedometer Corrector Calibration
---------------------------------

Speedometers, from the factory, are usually off a little, usually reading a
little higher than your actual speed. A manufacturer wouldn't want any lawsuits
from people getting speeding tickets because the speedometer says 50 when
you're doing 53. And if you change your tire size or your gearing, your
speedometer will be farther off, too high or too low.

-----------
Gather Data
-----------
Do this before installing the Speedo Corrector, or with it installed and
jumpered for Bypass. Drive the vehicle, preferably on a flat straight highway,
with little traffic, at a fairly high speed (a very steady 60 to 75 MPH). Write
down the speedometer reading, and a GPS reading. Take multiple readings, a
dozen or so, since they'll vary a little. An assistant is almost essential.

---------------------------
Calculate Correction Factor
---------------------------
Average all of the speedometer readings together, and average all of the GPS
readings together.

If the speedometer readings are lower than the GPS readings, you'll need an
Increase (to the Speedo). Otherwise you'll need a Decrease.

Divide the higher number by the lower, and subtract 1, and multiply by 100.
That's the percent of change you need. For example: You get a speedometer
reading of 60, and a GPS reading of 53.2. So you're going to need a Decrease
(we'll get to that shortly), because you want to decrease the indicated speed
on the speedometer. Divide the higher number, 60, by the lower, 53.2, and get
1.1278. Subtract 1 giving 0.1278. Multiply by 100 giving 12.78. Round that to
the nearest whole number giving 13. That's the percent of change you need.

----------------
Set DIP Switches
----------------
There are 8 switches on the DIP-switch. The left-most switch is the Increase/
Decrease selector. Switch down is Decrease, switch up is Increase. Set it.

The remaining 7 switches get the binary value of the correction factor you
calculated above. Windows has a handy calculator with a Programmer option in
the menu. Type in your value (like 13 from the example above), and it will show
you the binary value (1101). Add some zeros to the left side of that to get 7
digits (0001101). Enter that on the remaining 7 switches (switch up for 1, down
for 0). Our example setting would be Decrease 13%.

Set the Run/Bypass jumper to Run.

-------------------
Drive, Check, Tweak
-------------------
Go for a test drive with your helper. Check the speedometer against a GPS
again.

Your speedometer should now be correct, or close. You might need to tweak it a
little. Use the calculator to find the binary numbers on either side of your
calculated calibration factor, and set the switches accordingly.

Note: The device only loads the calibration factor at power-up, so if you're
changing the switches with the vehicle running, you'll have to power-cycle the
device.

If the speedometer is still way off, something is wrong, and you'll need to
troubleshoot.
